www/posts/0051-sync-pycon-to-iphone.rst, before:

=======================================
How to sync PyCon videos to your iPhone
=======================================
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Using Python to fetch and convert YouTube videos for syncing to iPhone :: python
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Problem
-------

You want to all the `PyCon`_ videos on your iPhone for offline viewing.

.. _`PyCon`: http://pycon.org/

Solution
--------

Use the following Python script to fetch pycon videos from YouTube and convert them to
M4V format so they can be imported to iTunes.  

.. raw:: html

    <script src="https://gist.github.com/2018487.js"> </script>

To run the script:

1. Ensure you have `requests`_ and `BeautifulSoup`_ installed in your Python
   environment;
2. Ensure you have ``ffmpeg`` available on your path;
3. Download `youtube-dl`_ to the same directory as this script

.. _`requests`: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/v0.10.7/index.html
.. _`BeautifulSoup`: http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/
.. _`youtube-dl`: http://rg3.github.com/youtube-dl/

Run this script using:

.. sourcecode:: bash

    python fetch_pyvideo.py

The script will display the title and description of each available PyCon video
and prompt you as to whether you want to download it.  Once all videos have been
reviewed, each selected one will be downloaded and converted.  When all videos
have been processed, you can import the files into iTunes and sync them onto your Apple device.

Discussion
----------

As is plain to see, the script is a hacky bit of Python plumbing that:

* Scrapes the PyCon category and video pages of `pyvideo.org`_;
* Prompts the user to choose which videos to download;
* Fetches the Flash  content from YouTube using the ``youtube-dl`` utility;
* Converts the ``.flv`` files to the M4V QuickTime format.

.. _`pyvideo.org`: http://pyvideo.org/

Commit message:

Added warning to pyvideo article

www/posts/0051-sync-pycon-to-iphone.rst, after:

=======================================
How to sync PyCon videos to your iPhone
=======================================
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Using Python to fetch and convert YouTube videos for syncing to iPhone :: python
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Problem
-------

You want to all the `PyCon`_ videos on your iPhone for offline viewing.

.. _`PyCon`: http://pycon.org/

Solution
--------

Use the following Python script to fetch pycon videos from YouTube and convert them to
M4V format so they can be imported to iTunes.  

.. raw:: html

    <script src="https://gist.github.com/2018487.js"> </script>

.. warning::

    This gist is stale now - the code for downloading videos has been
    expanding into a `Github repository`_.

.. _`Github repository`: https://github.com/codeinthehole/pyvideo2quicktime

To run the script:

1. Ensure you have `requests`_ and `BeautifulSoup`_ installed in your Python
   environment;
2. Ensure you have ``ffmpeg`` available on your path;
3. Download `youtube-dl`_ to the same directory as this script

.. _`requests`: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/v0.10.7/index.html
.. _`BeautifulSoup`: http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/
.. _`youtube-dl`: http://rg3.github.com/youtube-dl/

Run this script using:

.. sourcecode:: bash

    python fetch_pyvideo.py

The script will display the title and description of each available PyCon video
and prompt you as to whether you want to download it.  Once all videos have been
reviewed, each selected one will be downloaded and converted.  When all videos
have been processed, you can import the files into iTunes and sync them onto your Apple device.

Discussion
----------

As is plain to see, the script is a hacky bit of Python plumbing that:

* Scrapes the PyCon category and video pages of `pyvideo.org`_;
* Prompts the user to choose which videos to download;
* Fetches the Flash  content from YouTube using the ``youtube-dl`` utility;
* Converts the ``.flv`` files to the M4V QuickTime format.

.. _`pyvideo.org`: http://pyvideo.org/
